Contribute
==========

Any contribution is more than welcome!

Documentation
-------------

You can find the documentation source on Github `Moa repository
<https://github.com/mfiers/Moa/>`_ in the `Sphinx
<https://github.com/mfiers/Moa/tree/moa.0.11/sphinx>`_
subdirectory. The documentation is formatted in `Restructured Text
<http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickstart.html>`_
and generated using `Sphinx <http://sphinx-doc.org/>`_.

If you would like to work on the documentation, you can clone the
repository and send pull requests for any change you make. However,
there is an easier way. Make sure you have a github account
first. Once you're logged into Github, go to the moa `sphinx
<https://github.com/mfiers/Moa/tree/moa.0.11/sphinx>`_ subdirectory,
click on the *.rst file you would like to edit and subsequently click
the edit button. You now get a warning that Github is forking the
repository - which is fine - there should be an edit window that
allows you to edit the text. Once you're done editing, please write a
little (commit) message describing what you changed, and if necessary,
am more elaborate comment, and click "Propose File Change". On the
next page you get the option to "Send a pull request", which pings me
that you've made changes. (note that you now forked Moa)

Software Prerequisites
----------------------

Obviously, in order to build documentation you will need to install
`Sphinx <http://sphinx-doc.org/>`_ using the call::

  pip install Sphinx

For Python 2.6 users `argparse <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/argparse>`_
is also required so call::

  pip install argparse

Code
----

You can easily fork the repository and hack away. You can send pull
requests if you want your new code merged into the central Moa
repository. Contact `me <mailto:mark.fiers.42@gmail.com>`_ if you have
any questions.

